---
title: "Cophasing segmented pupils with the SCC-PS and Zelda-PS"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2016-10-4-6
venue: "Wavefront sensing in the VLT/ELT era, 1st edition"
date: 2016-10-4
location: "Marseille, France"
---

Searching for extraterrestrial life through the observation and characterization of exoplanets is, amongst others, one of the major goal of the modern astrophysics. This quest translate from an instrumental point of view to the development of telescope capable of reaching higher angular resolution that what is actually ongoing. That is why the future projects of extremely large telescopes are using primary mirrors exceeding the 30 meters in diameter. Their conception is consequently based, for technical and technological reasons, on a segmented geometry. The segmentation of the primary mirror therefore implies a growing complexity of the structure of its pupil. In order to reach the optical quality required by the sciences cases of interest, taking into account and correct for the effects introduced by a poor alignment of the segments is mandatory, as the angular resolution of a non-cophased telescope is equivalent to the one obtained with a single segment. In this context, I develop in this manuscript two cophasing sensors allowing to measure and correct for the aberrations of piston, tip and tilt present on a segmented pupil. The first one, the Self-Coherent Camera - Phasing Sensor (SCC-PS), is based on a focal plane analysis of the signal. The second one, the ZELDA - Phasing Sensor (ZELDA-PS), is based on a pupil plane analysis of the signal. The results obtained by means of numerical simulations and the first results coming from the implementation of the SCC-PS on an optical bench are presented in this manuscript.
